# Perkins Coie
Perkins Coie is an American multinational law firm headquartered in Seattle, Washington. Founded in 1912, the firm is recognized as an Am Law 50 firm. It is the largest law firm headquartered in the Pacific Northwest and has 20 offices across the United States and in China and Taiwan. The firm provides corporate, commercial litigation, intellectual property, and regulatory legal advice to a broad range of clients, including many large technology companies like Google, Twitter, Intel, Facebook, and Amazon. In addition to corporate representation, the firm often represents political clients like Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama, and other prominent Democrats. The Firm is known for its strong pro bono work.

The firm was founded in 1912 and has represented the Boeing Company since the founding of the aerospace company in 1916. Perkins Coie has been named one of Fortune's "100 Best Companies to Work For" for 18 consecutive years and recently ranked #40 on the list.

Perkins Coie is counsel of record for the Democratic National Committee, Democratic Leadership Council, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. Other political clients include nearly all Democratic members of the United States Congress. It has also represented several presidential campaigns, including those of John Kerry, Barack Obama, and Hillary Clinton. The group's political law practice was founded by Robert Bauer who recruited Marc Elias and made him chair of the group in 2009. Both men have since left the firm.

Outside of its highly regarded political law practice, the firm is noted for being an early entrant into fintech and blockchain legal work and for the counsel it has provided to clients in this evolving area. Perkins Coie is also known for counseling startups and established tech companies. It launched the Perkins Coie Tech Venture index in 2019, which measures the overall health and trajectory of the emerging growth technology and venture capital ecosystem.

In 2018, Perkins Coie joined the American Bar Association's campaign targeting substance-use disorders and mental health issues among lawyers.

In 2019, the firm become a signatory to the Mansfield Rule, which aims to diversify the leadership of large law firms by broadening the candidate pool for senior management positions.

In September 2021, [[Michael Sussmann]], a well-known cybersecurity lawyer at Perkins Coie, was indicted by the John Durham Special Counsel for allegedly making a false statement to the FBI in September 2016. Sussmann resigned from the Perkins Coie after he was charged by the special counsel.