# Sweden
Swedish Telecom began in 1853, established by the Swedish government as Kongl. Elektriska Telegraf-Verket when an electric telegraph line using the Morse system was opened between Stockholm and Uppsala. Since then the company has operated under a variety of names, including Telegrafverket after 1860 and Televerket since 1953. The opening of the initial electric telegraph line was followed by the rapid development of a widespread telegraph network, consisting initially of single-wire telegraph lines. By 1854 the first telegraph line to the continent via a submarine cable was opened, and by 1857 a telegraph line was completed between Ystad and Haparanda, linking Sweden from north to south.

In 1877 the first telephone line was installed, only one year after Alexander Graham Bell's invention. At the beginning of that year it was demonstrated in Sweden to King Oscar at the Royal Castle in Stockholm. By the 1880s private telephone societies were founded in most of Sweden's large towns. By 1885 Stockholm had more telephones than any other city in the world. By the turn of the century, Telegrafverket had installed 62,000 telephones, plus several exchanges of varying sizes.

In 1918 there was a major change in the company's status when it purchased the telecommunications firm Stockholms Allm&auml--a Telefon AB, which was responsible for the largest telephone exchange in Sweden. Telegrafverket had for some time challenged this company's dominance in taking over telephone subscriptions and long-distance calls. Although the market was still formally open, the buy-out resulted in a national de facto monopoly, as no other competitor seemed to have the financial means or technical resources to mount a challenge.
