# Hillary Clinton 2016 presidential campaign
The 2016 presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton was announced in a YouTube video, on April 12, 2015. Hillary Clinton was the 67th United States Secretary of State and served during the first term of the Obama administration, 2009 to 2013. She was previously a United States Senator from New York, 2001 to 2009, and is the wife of former President Bill Clinton, serving as First Lady of the United States from 1993 to 2001.

Clinton's main competitor in the 2016 Democratic primary election was Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders. She received the most support from middle aged and older voters, as well as from African-American, Latino and older female voters. She focused her platform on several issues, including expanding racial, LGBT, and women's rights, raising wages and ensuring equal pay for women, and improving healthcare.

The Associated Press declared Clinton the presumptive nominee of the Democratic Party after she reached the required number of delegates, including both pledged delegates and superdelegates on June 6, 2016. Sanders endorsed Clinton's campaign for president on July 12. Clinton announced that U.S. Senator Tim Kaine would be her vice presidential running mate on July 22. Clinton and Kaine were officially nominated at the 2016 Democratic National Convention on July 26.

Clinton conceded the 2016 presidential election to Republican Donald Trump on November 9 after media outlets declared Trump had exceeded the 270 electoral college vote threshold needed to win the election and ending the campaign. Had Clinton been elected, she would have been the first female elected president, and the first husband-and-wife to become president. Bill Clinton would have also become the first first gentleman of the United States.

## Perkins Coie
[[Perkins Coie]] was hired in 2015 as counsel for the presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton. As part of its representation of the Clinton Campaign and the Democratic National Committee, Elias retained the intelligence firm Fusion GPS for opposition research services. Those services began in April 2016 and concluded before the 2016 U.S. presidential election in early November. A notable product of that "opposition research" was the Steele dossier describing alleged attempts by Russia to promote the presidential campaign of Donald Trump.  During the campaign, the Clinton campaign and the DNC paid Perkins Coie $5.6 million and $3.6 million respectively. On October 24, 2017, Perkins Coie released Fusion GPS from its client confidentiality obligation. The Federal Election Commission conducted an investigation into misreported 2016 payments to Perkins Coie and levied a fine of over $100,000, jointly paid by the Democratic National Committee and the Clinton campaign.
